---
layout: post
title:      "                                     Why Data Science?"
date:       2019-07-22 20:18:16 +0000
permalink:  why_data_science
---


### Why would anyone want to join a coding bootcamp to learn about data science in 2019 ?

There are many reasons why in 2019 coding bootcamps and data science are popular and I will share why I picked Data science instead of web development or User Interface development. 

I was always better at math than other subjects like english, history, or the type of subjects that you do not have the ability to come to a nearly perfect answer. To me what I like about math is that there is an answer that everyone can find and that you are mainly either right or wrong. 

I was in my senior year of high school and everyone was applying to colleges and college seemed to be the only right answer from my high school. I was still not convinced that college and a 4 year university would be the best thing for me to do. So I decided not to go to university even though my older sister has a Ph.D, my other sister has a 4 year university degree, and my twin brother was going to go to the big state school university for engineering. I was looking at the cost of a university degree, the amount of people who graduate, the average earnings, and the debt that people have. I was not as fortunate as some people who had a trust fund waiting for them to spend on 4 years of drinking and barely gaining any smarts. When I  looked at the data sources that I saw it seemed to me that the only university option that would be worth doing would be engineering. Engineers make lots of money, have lots of job opportunities, learn lots of real world knowledge, and it only takes 4 years instead of 7-10 years for a Ph.D who might make the same as the engineer. I was not confident in my ability to do engineering because the news kept saying how hard engineering is and how almost all engineer majors switch to a different degree because it is so hard to pass the classes. So I decided that I could go to community college part time taking only general classes while my intended major was criminal justice because I thought that the United States crime system will never go out of business and I have always been interested in crime and how criminals do the things that criminals do. Community college was a cheap cost way to learn what things I am interested in while I work at see what type of jobs I would be able to get without having an education. I learned that community college education was worse than the high school that I went to. The teachers did not care nearly as much, and I was not learning anything more than what I had learned in High school except for that I would have to pay a fortune to learn a little.

I got fed up with the way that the government and the world worked. There always seemed like tons of fixable problems and almost no one who cares about the problems that are happening to them all the time. I knew after having a little experience going to the local community college that I did not want to do the average boring life with the average boring education. So I went to a different community college for a business management degree because I wanted to learn about business and why business was the way that it was. I could do my own thing if I ever had a good idea and some money. So that is what I did. I learned about accounting, management, business law, and other business topics. I was still only learning enough to say that I learned something but not enough to do much in those topics. I was thinking about going to school for an accelerated Masters in Economics because my thinking was that if I get a Masters in Economics I will definitely have enough real world knowledge to get hired, make money, and understand the world around me. I did not get in to the local university so I did not go to school anymore and do exactly what I thought would be a bad idea according to the numbers originially. 

I moved to Florida at this point after not finding a job in Minnesota making enough money to do what I wanted to do. I wanted to make enough money to be near the median for my college and my degree. My calculations said that number was around $32,000 per year. I still could not find a job making that much in Florida and I only got a job offer at a transcriptionist place for way less than what the data told me that I could be worth.In most states the states do not tell you how much each program makes at each school unless they are under the federal law of required gainful employment laws. Not very many programs are like this. So in most states it is like shooting in the dark when picking which school and which program in that school as far as financial pay off. Luckily for me Minnesota reports unemployment wage data according to which school and which program the person went to. So I had a good idea of what I was worth relatively. The transcriptionist place still was having transcriptionists manually type out transcriptions instead of having google translate programatically do it or even having the Dragon voice software turn words from a transcriptionist into words on a computer. I still did not take that job even though I was desperate for a job. That job represented to me what was wrong with the world. An out of date business that was not using technology to be in the 21st century but rather was content with doing it the old fashioned way.

So eventually while looking around online I found coding schools and I applied. I thought that coding schools represent what is right with the world. A 21st century idea full of people who can leverage technologies to do massive things for a small amount compared to the old way. Money excites me because I think money is the way that the world works. There is so much money to be had and yet there are so many people who do not have enough money. It seems like such a dumb problem to have. I have been hearing and reading about automation and how all the easy jobs will be automated away and in my lifetime the whole job market will not look anything like what it is now. This is scary because I am not an engineer, lawyer , doctor, or other high class skilled employee. I only learned enough to be working in retail or being a shift manager at a gas station. The news says that these jobs will be automated. I also thought that they could be automated, and I thought that it would solve lots of people's problems with the economy ; not enough production and too much money and resources for that production. Data science can help me help the world be a better place by working on improving the value that humans have while making everyone have a better quality of life through data analysis, business processes analysis, marketing analysis, sales analysis, economic factor analysis, and automating artificial intelligence models so that a human does not have to keep trying to keep up with the changing data in a losing battle where a computer can easily keep up and become better and better without a lot of human time.

Also I saw that the salaries are nearly as much as my step brothers iOS job and my twin brothers firmware engineering job. Enough money that if I were to use my business and accounting knowledge I could calculate an early retirement without even knowing much about investing. An early retirement is only for the professionals who are in the top 10% of the job market and are well educated. That is what the news says and generally that is what people believe, but I learned not to believe what people say but to look at the data and the math to find what makes the most sense. The math says that data analysis jobs are super in demand and that means lots of money, and it also means that with all the automation companies will rely on computer data scientists to figure out how to make those computers make them money in my lifetime. So for me data science is the thing for me because it represents what the future will look like, while giving me the skills to make lots of money doing real world projects, in a lot less time than it would take to be a Ph.D or to become an engineer, and it will give me the ability to do the things that I really want to do like travelleling, running, cooking,and retiring early.
