---
layout: post
title:      "Why the bar plot is the best plot"
date:       2019-08-05 05:43:08 +0000
permalink:  why_the_bar_plot_is_the_best_plot
---


The best plot is the plot that the most people can easily figure out in their head what it means. Everyone learns about simple bar plots in elementary school math. Bar plots are by far the most common and are some of the easiest. That is why I wanted to pick bar plots as the plot to talk about. Some of the ways that people most use bar plots as I just used bar plots on my project was to explain in the most simple way why the way something is. I used bar plots to show that as the amount of bedrooms in a house goes up so does the median sales price. I could have used a scatter plot to plot the bedrooms and the sales prices and it would look like a bunch of vertical dotted lines. That would still give someone a visual representation but its not nearly as nice as a bar plot. Scatter plots are more exotic than bar plots. When I first see a scatter plot I really have to start thinking about what am I looking at and what does it mean and why would anyone purposely use a scatter plot to represent vertical scattered lines? All of these questions are never pop up in my head when I see a bar plot because of its simplicity. It can't ever be complicated and so I know immediately without thinking about what the small tickers on the bottom represent or if I don't know what each label means in real life I at least can be sure that the person using the visualization meant to make something simple. The simplicty goes a bit deeper than just that the graph is simple to read but it also can be used and I believe since it is the graph that is learned the earliest that a bar graph represents simplicity in both understanding the graph but also from the person who is making the graph and even the data. The data if being represented in a bar graph should be a simple point being made that doesn't make the reader think about anything because they should have all of it understood quickly and accurately. 

Although this is good about how simple bar graphs are it also is not always such a good thing. Sometimes using a bar graph gives a vibe of simplicity even when the answer should make the reader think about the answer more than just being spoon fed the answer. I can imagine at a business meeting a data scientist using a bar graph to explain some type of solution about something which could be worth a lot of money but then the audience does not take into account that the answers might not  be as simple and straight forward as they are lead to believe with the bar graph usage. This could also happen to the general public when looking at public data from a research branch of the government. If some researcher makes the graphs and accidentally conveys something in what they hope to be a simple way but they do it in such a way with a bar graph that the user thinks that the graph is trivial and doesn't have much impact on their life or just in general than all the simplicity built into a bar graph is no good if the simplicity is not good for the readers perception of the underlying answers being represented by the bar graph and not just the ability for the researcher to use a bar graph. 

Overall I think that a bar graph is a good graph and maybe one of the most common and easy to understand. I also think that it is going to be good for mostly uses where the answers are relatively simple or for an audience that already knows so much about the data that a visualization is just an extra not not needed. For uses where the answers are not trivial such as in science, research, and in business applications I think that the use of a more exotic type of graph would be better because with a more exotic looking graph comes a more exotic type of reader looking at the problem and the answer. Since it is usually good that the reader in these cases questions things and reads further into things before being ok with the answer the bar graph is almost too simple even though it works perfect for displaying basic amounts of information. 
