---
layout: post
title:      "The mathematics of retiring early "
date:       2020-02-29 23:54:11 +0000
permalink:  the_mathematics_of_retiring_early
---

Retiring early should be everyone's idea of a good life. According to a quick google search there were way fewer people who retired in the early 1900's than today. That is because there is social security, people are living longer and thus the savings that they have is compounding more and more leading to having enough money, and technology has gotten better so that people do not have to work as much. The average life expectancy if you were born in the year 1900 was 47 and according to the data the average retirement age near 1950 was 70 years old. Meaning that most people were dead a long time before they were retired if you were born in 1900. That is not neccesarily right but roughly that is what google is saying. If you were born in 2000 the average age of life expectancy is 75, and the average age of retirement in 2000 was 63. Life expectancy is going up and the average age of retirement is going down. More people get the chance to be retired today more than ever generally speaking. I believe that retirement does not have to be such a hard thing to do, and I believe that with modern technology advancing at such a sharp rate in the last few decades relative to 120 years ago that pretty soon there won't be too many things that man will be better at than robot. A few examples might be the construction industry, the police, and teachers. These are your every day type of people who right now may be able to be better than robots, but given the rate of technological advances I'm not sure that they will be as valuable. 

The construction industry can get partially automated by manufacturing advances where all sorts of different type of projects can be reduced to 50% of the work that it used to take and that means 50% fewer workers. A manufacturing advance could be something as simple as a robot that makes the frame of a house with the electrical, plumbing, windows, siding, and paint already done. It is not beyond the imagination to believe that a customized house that costs 25% or more less because the builder is a robot in a factory is already possible. There probably are some reasons for why this has already not happened, but with technology getting better at an exponential rate I can't imagine why 25% cost savings would not be taken. The police could install cameras on highways, stop lights, and deploy self driving vehicles in the future to stop crimes. Camera systems could find stolen vehicles since it is nearly impossible to drive very far without hitting a stop light intersection. The cost savings could be huge since it deters crime, finds more criminals,  and costs less than a highly paid cop making $75,000 per year with expensive insurances, expensive vehicles, health insurance, taxes, vacation pay, retirement benefits, etc. Also fewer accidents would save lives and it would save people money on insurance because of safer driving. There are plenty of good cameras and the cost is low enough that it might be worth the cost. China has already implemented a system like this, and I am sure that if it was implemented only for looking at car license plates and the speed of vehicles that it would not violate privacy concerns which seems to be what is making Americans hesitant. Another example that is less physical in nature is a school teacher. School teachers in the future could be partially replaced with websites, apps, and laptops that are able to do something as simple as teach basic concepts in math like 5 times 5 equals 25. There are more and more websites that offer this and they usually are free and pretty good even in more advanced fields such as data science. I believe that with all of these fields slowly taking the positions once done by man and replacing them with robots that eventually in the next few decades that there will not be as much demand for human labor overall since there is a finite amount of problems that will be solved. Essentially I don't think that job creation will outpace the job replacement in the future, and I think that this is the utopia that everyone has been imagining for a long time. Not having to do any hard work, living in a low stress environment, lots of good products for not a lot of money, and having more fun. That is why people are retiring more and more now, and at younger ages, because people want to retire, and technological advances have allowed that to happen. 

Besides that I think that technology in my lifetime, I am 25 years old, will make people retire because it will be way too good to say no to and people already do not say no to technology if it is really good, but the math behind saving and investing is easy currently. If I saved half of the maximum Roth Ira contribution or $275 per month at 7% interest for 30 years starting at 25 with a 2% inflation increase in contributions yearly with no current principal at the end of 30 years it would be $219,000 after adjusting that back into 2020 dollars. According to the federal reserve study the American median inheritance is roughly $200,000 currently. So if a person accumulates on average $100,000 equity in a home also that would be $519,000 at the age of 55 in 2020 dollars. If you add in social security payments and assume that they only have a little bit left on a mortgage for a house then they could retire on that amount of money. Especially considering that everything will be cheaper in theory. Phones, batteries, cars, houses, and anything else that is subject to automation, innovation, and invention will probably have prices go down while efficiency will go up. This is how I see my future and this means that eventually I believe that while people will live to be much much older they will also work much less meaning lots of time for the people of the future ( me but mostly people born in the future) to enjoy the entire world.
