---
layout: post
title:      "Is Selenium good or not?"
date:       2020-05-03 20:03:55 +0000
permalink:  is_selenium_good_or_not
---


A large part of being a data scientist is collecting the data and getting it into the right format for analysis. Without the data there is no data science. I was trying to scrape data from the uniform crime reporting tool and there was no really good method of writing a selenium script to automate what I was trying to get the web browser to do. Selenium is different than other types of web scraping because it allows the user to tell the browser what buttons to click in order to make sure that the website pulls the right data and displays it onto the webpage. Some websites will automatically post all of the data making selenium not neccesary, but some websites use dynamic webpages that need to have input choices in order to get the data. In my case I was trying to get selenium to click and drag in order to select all the states in a selection box. There was no way that I could find that did this except for manually type in a click at a certain location and then making it hold down and then dragging a certain distance. This ended up not working for reasons that I don't understand because I tried all the different possible combinations of drag distance and I know that literally this worked because I had done it myself without selenium and it worked. It took me hours to try and mess with the selenium scripts to see how to do such a simple task. I thought that if selenium would be able to have a macro function it would take a lot less time to write selenium scripts. I am not sure how to accomplish that but selenium is already something that I'm not sure how to accomplish writing the software. Also if I could have a few more functions that would allow me to write some javascript to highlight the different states in the selection box that I want via clicking them while holding down the control button which allows the user to select more than one state in the selection box then I would have been able to accomplish what I wanted in only a few minutes. I thought that this would work since there is a built-in click method and a built-in method to hold down the control button at the same time but this did not work. I think it might not have worked because the objects were not within view on the browser so maybe they can't be clicked even though they exist on the webpage. Overall I would say that this amount of work just to get selenium to click on a few objects that I can find with the xpath perfectly is a little bit slow. The whole point of selenium is to save time but this functionality that should work doesn't. 
