---
layout: post
title:      "Finding Good Data "
date:       2020-03-13 23:55:59 +0000
permalink:  finding_good_data
---

Life would be a lot easier as a data scientist or a data analyst if the data was always in the right form and complete. A latest project of mine recently reminded me that no matter how good of a data scientist someone might be there is no way to figure out answers without the data. I was trying to figure out if the nicest colleges actually gave the students of the top schools more earning potential. I went to the government website where it said that it was including the earnings of students and downloaded the  dataset which was in csv format. I was glad that it had the earnings data because I have not seen the earnings data before and I thought that the earnings data would be really interesting. I started looking at the dataset and I still found no data on the earnings. I did find 2000 columns of data on over 7000 schools but I did not find the earnings data in the earnings columns. Most of the data was in the dataset, but the earnings were not. I do not know why the earnings data was not in the dataset, maybe an accident, but I would hope that the government wouldn’t release information on purpose without the earnings information. I could not figure out which schools were financially worth it because I did not have the earnings information making it impossible to calculate the return on investment differential based on the school. 

	Another problem that I have had dealing with a different project is that certain websites make their websites non-scraper friendly. I was trying to scrape Indeed.com and Simplyhired.com, but they purposefully make their websites hard to scrape. These websites would have an easier time making websites if they just would make their websites more simplified, but instead they make their websites with all sorts of weird and different layouts so that writing a scraping bot becomes much more difficult to get it 100% right. I suppose they do not want people to scrape their website, but besides the amount of web traffic that they are getting I do not think that having people scrape their website is a bad thing. It would allow someone like me to figure out the job market currently easier than going by hand through thousands of postings. This also is with their search engine. The software engineers are these companies do not make the search function very good. I believe that I could do a better job making the search functionality on these websites than they do and they should basically only focus on search since it is a job search engine essentially. If I search for data analyst I get all sorts of jobs that are not data analysts at all. I get mostly business analyst job postings that I do not want. Even if I was not scraping their website I would not want to find a crappy search result, and if they saw a lot of automated traffic in a small amount of time indicating that someone is scraping their website they could make the search results be much worse than if they believed that the visitor to the website is not a robot. Overall I see how most of the information that I would want such as how much money does it pay, where is it located, what is the standardized job title, how many hours, how long does the position last, what business, and the job description are not very complete or in an somewhat unusable format. How can I collect and try to figure out which job is the best if I cannot collect the data because it is missing? I won’t be able to and also no one else will be able to either.
	
	Mostly I think that there is a crappy amount of data that is given to people who are just trying to make simple 
calculations on how their whole life is going to be. Which college to go to? Where should I move? Are there any jobs in this market? How much does this industry pay? What skills do employers really look for? These are some simple questions that should have simple answers. I do not think that denying the possibility to find out simple answers does anyone very much good except for the few people who want to gain a relatively small advantage at the cost of the whole world. 

