---
layout: post
title:      "How good are data visualizations? "
date:       2020-04-18 03:41:17 +0000
permalink:  how_good_are_data_visualizations
---


Are data visualizations good because of their functionality or because of the style? I like data visualizations that have both good design and have good functionality that allows me to learn something better than any other way. There seems to be more data visualizations that I am finding on the internet that have good design, but do not allow me to learn much. I was browsing the internet to see if someone else had spent the time and effort of building a website with the ability to help users find a specific type of location based on user filters. This could help users find the college they want to go to, the vacation spot to visit, the town to retire at, the location of their next Subway franchise, or many other useful applications. I'm sure that Google did not give me the perfect websites on the first page of results because I do not know what to perfectly type in the search box for Google to find exactly what I am looking for. I was able to find policymap.com which is a great website full of lots of data and really nice visualizations. There is information and tons of functionality, but I was unable to really use it to narrow down a search for something specific such as the best place to live according to what I believe is important. The website does not have functionality in this sense. I could look at each map individually and then try to narrow down certain areas and then further narrow down areas which would work ok, but it definitely would be easier if I could type in filters and see what is left. This is something that I wish was different about data visualizations in general that I have been seeing; there is good design but low usefulness. I could spend 30 seconds typing in information on filters that I care about such as low cost of living, nice parks, and warm weather and it would show me all the places instantly. If my filters did not show many results I could broaden the search or I could narrow the search if I find too many. I would have to spend at least 5 minutes going back and forth from map to map before I either narrowed my search to the few places that I could find or tried another combination. In my opinion the world needs to move into the direction of solving problems with the data visualizations instead of making pretty websites and visualizations that do not solve problems efficiently. 
