---
layout: post
title:      "How will the United States handle the debt burden?"
date:       2020-07-20 02:29:38 +0000
permalink:  how_will_the_united_states_handle_the_debt_burden
---


I found it interesting that the spending in the United States has gone up so much while the economy has not been able to keep up. According to a Congressional Budget Office projection the percentage of the total Gross Domestic Product of the United States that the government owes as debt will go from near 80% to double or 160% by 2049. That means that the debt accounted for inflation will go up 2.3% for the next 30 years. If this continues the interest payments on the debt which currently are about 9% of the tax revenue or $400 billion will balloon to double or nearly 20%. This means that the government will have about 10% less of its current revenue to spend on government plans. Either the government will cut spending or raise taxes. I am not sure how the Congressional Budget Office calculated these variables but assuming they are right then the governments attempts at raising taxes will not work enough or spending won't get cut enough either. So assuming those variables are the same then to keep the same type of standards as far as I understand the government would have to keep taking more and more debt each year until they cannot afford to take more debt or no one will lend the United States any money. If the United States just keeping raising its debt by 2.3% each year for 100 years that would be 7.77x more debt than the GDP total. In other words just the nearly 10% debt repayments would be 70% of the whole GDP which would be about 3-4x the total amount of tax revenue that the federal government gets. Basically the federal government will have a real big problem if spending looks like that doubling in 2050-2080 because roughly 30-40% of all tax revenue will go to just debt payments that they seemingly will never be able to pay off. A balanced budget when having only 60% to 70% of the same amount of money is something that I have no idea how the U.S goverment will handle except for raising taxes or forgiving the debt which means that United States bond holders will be dissapointed that their money will be worth 40% of what is should have been worth.
