---
layout: post
title:      "What are the most important things when considering where to live? "
date:       2020-05-17 16:05:16 -0400
permalink:  what_are_the_most_important_things_when_considering_where_to_live
---

Is the most important thing water quality, air quality, quality of schools, quality of parks, income tax, property taxes, housing market inflation, incomes, weather, type of foods, size of the area, commuting distances, shopping nearby, crime rates, health care, is the area getting larger or smaller, gdp of area, older or younger population, average education, poverty rates, wealth gap, foreclosure rates, bankruptcy rates, percentage on food stamps, or lots of other factors that can be measured? If I had to pick which ones are the most important I would measure which ones are the most extreme on the scale of least bearable to most enjoyable. For example really bad water quality could be anywhere from the least bearable because you need water all the time, but also there are ways to privately purify water that is not clean. Having no jobs in the area and really high rent, food costs, and other things could potentially be unbearable since it could be nearly mathematicaly impossible to be able to afford the costs of everyday life, but on the other hand the poor people could live together in a single house with 10 adults so that the costs become more affordable making this more bearable. On the other side of the scale some of the most enjoyable things could be indirectly less bearable such as having lots of nice public parks, really nice public infrastructures, and nice air and water quality. These could be less than ideal since they mean higher income taxes, property taxes, and they don't always mean that they improve very many percentage of people who pay for them. That would turn something from enjoyable on paper to something that is actually worse in real life. I also was wondering when trying to figure out the underlying data behind the on paper numbers if the people who live in certain areas that have certain benefits but also certain cons more align with those benefits vs cons? So maybe the question is what the actual people in each of the cities thinks about all of the variables. There are surveys on these types of questions such as life satisfaction and how happy people are, but I am not sure that that will tell much except for in the extremes of extreme dissatisfaction or extreme satisfaction. Sometimes people are ignorant of what they have in relation to what everyone else has because the data is not very clear and is hardly ever all in one place with high levels of deepness to be able to answer the real underlying questions not just the numbers on the paper being better. I will have to try to find data that is not the normal type of survey information in order to figure out what the locals actually think about the area. Hopefully I will find this indirectly, but perhaps the data is going to be too hard to rank any place other than the worst and the best. 
