---
layout: post
title:      "How to be a Professional sports bettor with no sports knowledge"
date:       2020-01-03 02:01:51 +0000
permalink:  how_to_be_a_professional_sports_bettor_with_no_sports_knowledge
---

Beating the bookies with their own numbers - and how the online sports betting market is rigged
https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.02824

A common problem with gambling is that in the long run gambling at a casino is a losing bet, and who wants to lose money? Something that can make watching sports more interesting is to make bets on the outcomes of certain sporting events such as who will win the world cup, or how many wins will the Minnesota Vikings gets in 2020? Most people don't expect to profit from making these bets but they expect to lose a little bit. In this paper from researchers in Japan they describe how to make anyone a winning sports bettor without having to have advanced knowledge of how sports work and the most up to date information on the sports teams. The way that they use is to find the amount of profit that was being made on an average sports betting line. The average amount of profit was around 3-6%. This means that if the true odds were 40% for a certain outcome the sports bettors would make the betting line .40 * 1.03 =.412% odds meaning that the true odds are not as good as the odds that the customers would have to pay for making it a losing bet. Once they found that amount of profit they essentially knew what the true odds for anything was, and they would take any bets that had greater than 5% better odds than the average odds of all the different gambling websites. This would give them the best odds that were offered either because the gambling website wanted to attract customers or they wanted to remove their risk from having too many bets on a certain outcome relative to the opposite outcome since they just want to have an even amount of betting on each side. This strategy of finding bets that were well above the average odds being offered and above the profit margin that the sports betting companies have was a really good strategy. It returned 3.5% on the historical 10 year test, and nearly 10% on the actual test. That is a lot more than the stock market as it only returns around 10% per year, but this allows someone to get those type of returns every time that they place bets. I'm not sure if that is what they meant but if they meant that got 10% over the course of the year that is dependent on how many bets that they make and how much money they have. The more that they can bet all of their money and make those returns the more money that they can make, so I'm not sure about the returns,but my guess is that if they make 1-2% per bet and they can bet all of their money 5 - 10 times per year they would make 5 - 22%. I hope that you learned about how to beat the sports betting world without knowledge of the sports gambling world.
