---
layout: post
title:      "Why don't job websites legitimize a single form?"
date:       2020-07-05 18:58:54 +0000
permalink:  why_dont_job_websites_legitimize_a_single_form
---


It is so annoying to have to fill out all sorts of different forms on job websites just to apply to different jobs. They all are asking similar questions such as mailing address, name, date of birth, country , state, past job experience, education, etc. I have noticed that my google chrome browser has the ability to store simple mailing address information so that I don't have to type in my name, date of birth, address etc. This functionality is easy to use and has saved me lots of time typing in that information. I thought that if websites can essentially get this functionality to work which I'm guessing it uses some standarized tag to let the browser recognize it then why can't job websites use a standardized form for all of the information not just some of it? I think that this could easily be made possible such as can be seen with apply with LinkedIn or other easy apply methods. It would save me a lot of time if I was able to browse all the jobs that have apply with LinkedIn links all in one place and then easy apply with all of my actual relevant information. Also it would make it nice for job posters because they would get more applicants which gives them more chances to find someone who is just right. I believe that this could save the economy in the hundreds of millions to billions in terms of wasted time with just a few simple strategies to standardize a single method to let applicants apply to lots of jobs quickly and job posters to get lots of applicants. A lot of applicants might be overwhelming at first,  but with the better quality data the automated systems would work better at filtering out applicants who don't possess enough to be manually checked. 


Also cover letters could be worth a little bit less since there would be more applicants therefore more quality resumes which means less emphasis is put on cover letters and more on actual qualifications. Cover letters are not as easily converted into a computer score since they are a lot more complex. Cover letters in my personal belief are not worth that much anyways since most cover letters tell the employer why they want to work for their company. How would a person know that they want to work for an employer before they have ever worked their? They don't know the work culture, the pay, what the company actually does, who works at the company, and all sorts of other things. Basically an applicant only knows the very basics and I don't think basics are what makes an applicant differentiate between one company and another except for generically. Cover letters are not supposed to be generically written they are supposed to be full of passion, but that seems to be unlikely. 
