---
layout: post
title:      "What can you buy with $10 billion "
date:       2020-03-06 19:49:20 +0000
permalink:  what_can_you_buy_with_10_billion
---


The owner of Amazon, Jeff Bezos, has recently donated $10 billion of his own money to help climate change. Just how much can be done with $10 billion? You could buy a whole industry and replace it with green businesses that are cheaper than the current one such as green concrete. I figure that a concrete business could cost maybe $10 million. Elio motors is another example of where only $100 million could help save consumers a lot of money and save lots of gas from going into the air. They produce ultra cheap vehicles for only nearly $7000 that seats two and gets gas mileage of 85 mpg while being very safe and highly scalable. Research into battery technology could cost maybe $500 million and with that $500 million my best guess is that they would be able to find batteries that work at least twice as good as the current batteries. There probably is already some technology from a lab or research that is twice as good as the current standard, but doing more testing and doing marketing to companies could be expensive. If Jeff Bezos paid the best 10 researchers in 250 different fields $150,000 per year for 5 years plus an additional $100,000 per year for the rest of their life to keep updating the textbooks each year that would only cost $1.875 billion initially and the $100,000 per year could come from selling the textbooks at a discount. He would be able to give away the best information that the world publicly has to offer to all the countries in the world where education is not a big deal. He could manufacture the kindles, the content, and pay for solar power in places where electricity is scarce. He could start a research company that researches better ways to grow crops perhaps spending $500 million on research. That could make certain countries where crops do not grow have a lot easier of a time growing their own food at a low cost making food scarcity a lot less of a world problem. He could invest into research on graphene which is the worlds coolest new material that was discovered in the last 20 years. It could be used in water filtration, solar power, computer chips, steel beams, electrical wire, and lots of other things that I cannot think of off the top of my head. It is the strongest material, the most conductive,  and we barely know how to make use of it. There is a lab that was able to make graphene from any carbon material such as coffee grounds with only a very cheap amount of electricity ($100 per ton). If he was successful in figuring out how to filter water and how to make solar panels much more efficiently that could help the water crisis all over the world and that could cost maybe $500 million. So far he has spent $3.485 billion and he has made more efficient cars, green concrete companies, written the best scientific textbooks in 250 different areas and given them away for cheap, made batteries twice as good as they are currently, figured out how to grow more sustainable crops all around the world solving in part the food crisis, made seawater filtration cheap and easy, and made solar panels more efficient and cheaper. He could try to invent a manufacturing process that makes different home building products cheaper. My guess is that to get scale he would have to invest initially $100 million. That could help the affordable housing crisis all over the world. He could invest another $1 billion into nuclear energy research so that the world has more renewable energy. He might not be able to spend enough to do a lot, but $1 billion in research is worth a lot more than $1 billion spent on actually implementing the ideas. Investing $1 billion in genetic testing to figure out where diseases come from and possibly how to safely genetically modify humans so that they do not get diseases. Spending $1 billion on computer chips and computer memory so that computing and storage is cheaper and better. Spending $1 billion on medical research to try to figure out the causes of diseases around the world. Spending $1 billion on disruptive satellite and cell phone technology so that everyone has high speed internet in the future with the research. Spending $1 billion on water purification systems that can be implemented anywhere in the world. Spending the rest of the $10 billion on something such as ways to disrupt other smaller less efficient industries such as fast food that is healthy and cheap, automating accounting or clerical tasks, automating manufacturing so that almost any manufacturing process can be automated making products much cheaper. If I had all of that money I would try to solve lots of ideas that are already partly done or almost done in order to save money on research so that I could boost the world into having the best ideas instead of saying almost having the best ideas.
