---
layout: post
title:      "How anyone can make a living trading in the forex market"
date:       2020-03-22 05:04:28 +0000
permalink:  how_anyone_can_make_a_living_trading_in_the_forex_market
---



The average person might have around $35,000 if they are in their thirties, according to research. In the forex market there are simple strategies that can net around 100% or more per year in the forex market. I am not an expert on forex trading, but I have been practicing trading on a demo account for around 1 month using Admiral trading software. I was able to make 200 pips in 1 month using simple following the trend strategies and oscillator strategies. A pip is 1/100th of a penny. This is not very much money overall. I made a lot more than 2 penny’s worth of money because I was using leverage and betting a lot more than $1. The euro/usd is the highest traded currency pair and is roughly 1.1 euros to 1 dollar us. I was trading $10,000 simulated money with a 10:1 leverage. The leverage means that I am borrowing $90,000 from someone in order to invest more in my trades, but I get to keep all the profits except for a small fee for the loan. Since I was betting $100,000 I was able to buy 100,000/1.1 (90,909) currency pairs each time I was making a trade. So I made 2 penny’s which is 2% of a dollar multiplied by 90,909 or $1818 in 1 month using $10,000. If I was trading triple that much that would add up to $5454 per month or over $65,000 per year. The strategies that I was using were basic in nature as I mostly was betting on the trend and the fact that the price goes up and down each day. I was not able to run a simulation because I did not want to try to learn how to write the testing code using forex trading strategy testing software. It is a lot of work, and it would be a lot easier if I had the raw data, but it was not free as far as I could see. I am sure that there are relatively low risk trading strategies that produce really good returns if you use leverage. The forex market is really nice because you can legally borrow up to 50x your money per trade meaning that if there are low risk high occurrence winning strategies then there would be a lot of money to be made. If there was a strategy that could win 4 pips on average and it has a winning ratio of 55% and it occurs twice per day on average and you leveraged 50x your money that would multiply to $0.004 * ($35,000*50 = $1,750,000) * ( 1750000/1.1 = 1590909) = $6363 per winning trade and the same per losing trade. If I have 55% odds of winning and 45% odds of losing then I have 10% profit on average per dollar that I would bet. In this trade the bet amount is $6363 so the 10% is based on this number not the $1.75 million because it is 10% net win based on the amount possible to win or lose in the trade which is $6363. So if it happens twice per day that is $6363 * 1/10 * 2 or $1272.6 per day. Of course if you have a losing streak then you can easily lose $35,000 if you lose $6363 per trade and only barely win more than lose so that risk of ruining your bank account has to be accounted for. This is called the risk of ruin and there is a math formula for it Risk of Ruin = ((1 - (W - L)) / (1 + (W - L)))U
Where:
•	W = the probability of a desirable outcome, or a win
•	L = the probability of an undesirable outcome, or a loss
•	U = the maximum number of risks that can be taken before the individual reaches their threshold for ruin
. Plugging the numbers in (1-(.55-.45)) / (1+ (.55-.45) ^ (35000/6363)
.9 / 1.689^1.50 = 50%. 
That is one risk of ruin formula that I found online, but I also found a different formula so I am not too sure if this formula is correct. I could easily run a monte-carlo simulation to calculate the risk of ruin. I am not going to do that since I don’t want to write all the code for it, but I know that risking 1/6th of all the money on each trade is too much risk and that eventually if only winning 55% of the bets that there will be a large draw down and eventually the account will be zero. I have heard that 1-2% per trade is enough that the risk of ruin is very low. Even with less than 10x less than the previous example you could write a trading algorithmic bot that automates the trading and provides roughly $120 per day or over $30,000 per year the first year with a low amount of risk/time/expertise. 

A few other things that could be done instead of lowering the leverage is picking a strategy that involves something that occurs more often but pays less. A lower risk strategy might provide more money in the long run because of the ability to add all the extra leverage without having to add an equivalent amount of risk of losing all the money. Also finding a strategy that has more of a winning percentage lowers the risk of continually getting losing bets which means that you can add more leverage without risking losing all the money. 

The forex market is not something that is impossible to make a lot of money in and I have just shared the basic math behind how to passively make a lot of money without having a lot of money while having a relatively lower amount of risk. 

