---
layout: post
title:      "Should businesses be allowed to fail ? "
date:       2020-04-05 17:54:51 +0000
permalink:  should_businesses_be_allowed_to_fail
---

I am wondering if bailing out failing businesses is the wrong thing to do or not? The United States government has recently bailed out the United States citizens who make less than $100,000, unemployed people, and businesses that have lost business due to an act of god such as the Corona Virus. I believe that these people do not need a bailout and that it is not worth the money to take out more debt just to give some people some money to be able to get along for another few months or years until they have another problem that they do not get bailed out by the government either leading to bankruptcy( a government bailout) or just closing the business. I recently wrote an article on what Jeff Bezos could do with $10 billion and he basically could not accomplish very much with $10 billion unless he was a ruthless business person dead set on crushing entire industries by creating a better product that would be given away for free making no competition possible. I don't think that $1200 checks will be very good for people overall as money is not the problem at all. What can $1200 buy you if you are an average American ? It could pay just your rent for 1 month potentially, but it won't pay for two months rent. It won't pay for your groceries, health insurance, health care bills, student loans, credit cards, gym memberships, computers, cell phones, car loans, car repair, clothes, makeup, shoes, utilities, private school payments, kids soccer club costs, diapers, daycare, or really anything. If Jeff Bezos wanted to be a ruthless business person with his $10 billion he could and he would probably not have a hard time destroying entire industries if he wanted to. That is what would help the country more than $1200 of cash one time as a loan because of course the government now owes $1200 to someone because they do not have a surplus they have a huge amount of debt. According to the bureau of labor statistics the average length of unemployment is around 4 months. If the nearly 10-15% of people who lost their job because of the Corona Virus are unemployed for 4 months and they receive what is essentially a loan for $1200 they will not have an easy time using that money to do much for them. There also is $600 a week in unemployment benefits on top of the average amount of $1200 a month will mean they will get nearly $4000 per month which might be enough to get by but what about the next time when they do not get an extra $2400 per month and a $1200 loan? How will these people do when that happens again ? Will the government keep bailing out it's citizens basically by loaning them the money so that they can spend all of what they get immediately and then pay for their whole life with higher taxes, lower quality of life, and all the other negative effects that having all that debt does? 

Will the airline industry ever go out of business ? No, someone else such as Warren Buffet who had $128 billion in cash waiting around to be invested will buy into these businesses when they are very cheap or go out of business and then he will make a lot of money without having to do much more than take his cash and buy an already good business. If it was what I wanted I would let the businesses fail because prolonging their failure is a dumb idea equivalent to procrastinating on a big project until the very last day when it becomes too hard to do everything the way it should be done. I believe that this Corona Virus is going to show the Americans and the world that the future is not prolonging the inevitable, but is embracing the future by using technology to become better by getting rid of old ideas and using new ideas to run the country and the world. 


