---
layout: post
title:      "Is it better to buy a used car or a new car ? "
date:       2020-04-26 20:44:29 +0000
permalink:  is_it_better_to_buy_a_used_car_or_a_new_car
---

I have never bought a new car because I have never been able to afford a new one except for the very cheapest new car which could be bought for nearly $13,000. The Nissan Versa is the cheapest new car that I found on Google. A 2019 Nissan Versa used is about $9 – 10 thousand with a range of 20,000 to 40,000 miles. That means that if it was bought at $13,000 to $15,000 for the more expensive package that it lost $4,000 to $5,000 in about 1 model year. That equates to roughly 30% of the value in 1 model year and about double the average miles driver per year of 10,000. The difference between a 2014 Nissan Versa with the same miles and a 2010 Nissan Versa is $1000 or 20% of the purchase price. The difference is that there is a longer time period of owning the car and less reduction in price because the “ new car smell” is gone once a car is 6 years old. I would personally buy a used car because they are cheaper to start off with, they don’t lose as much value as quickly, and they should be able to be a good car as long as they are maintained. There are a few cons such as having more problems which means more time dealing with finding rides to work, figuring the difference between buying another car or fixing the one that you have, figuring out if it is a good deal to buy or not, and not having something that feels, looks, and operates like a new vehicle. There can be a hidden good pro about buying used cars that is you can buy a cheap broken one from someone who doesn’t want to pay a mechanic and doesn’t know how to do it or doesn’t want to and fix it yourself. This is one way to get a properly maintained vehicle since you would be the one maintaining it and also at the same time getting a really good deal because instead of paying the fair market value which would be the value of the car after it is fixed minus the cost of fixing you would be paying that same “fair market value” but you would not have to pay the full cost of fixing it since mechanic shops charge around $100 per hour. This means that you would end up getting a cheaper than fair market value car, but you would have to buy a repair manual ($30) , tools($100-$300) if you do not own any, and spend the time fixing it yourself which is more risky than having a trusted mechanic do the repairs. For example there is a $399 2007 Chevy Cobalt that runs and drives and has 199,000 miles on it. If something needs to be replaced the parts shouldn’t be too hard to find, shouldn’t be too expensive, and the car is nearly free. A little bit of mechanical knowledge and effort could result in a car that costs a small amount of time ( maybe 10 hours to 20 hours a year) , money ( paying yourself $50 per hour for the time of repairs means saving yourself $50 per hour if you go the same speed as a mechanic) , and it could last for 5-10 years all while you would know exactly what is wrong/right with it. 
