---
layout: post
title:      "Where is the best place to live?"
date:       2020-04-11 20:40:59 +0000
permalink:  where_is_the_best_place_to_live
---


This is a question that a lot of people have thought about before. I have personally thought a lot about this question because I have moved from Minnesota to Florida in search of what I wanted. I had made that decision before I took the data science coding bootcamp so my method was not quite as advanced as what I could do now. I was using public rental pricing data with population data in order to find where the cheapest places were that had a large enough population size. I was able at the time to do some visual basic coding on microsoft excel to do the sorting, highlighting, and make it dynamic depending on what numbers I set into the parameters. I was not accounting for lots of other things such as types of restaurants to figure out what the culture is, the price of utilities, the unemployment rate, average age, weather, and lots of other types of data that are easy if you scrape a website but hard to find on a government website. I have a problem that does not go away with learning artificial intelligence; deciding what is important and what is not. Even though I still cannot defintely decide which place is the best for any specific person, because the answer is that the best place is dependent on the person themself,  I can more quickly come to the conclusion using graphs, interesting data manipulations, and more user friendly type of interfaces now then I was able to before. For example I can put a heatmap showing which locations have a higher score for specific jobs that I am interested in in order to better visualize which areas are better to quickly figure out which place to move to. 

An interesting part of data science is that some of the skills are transferable to other types of computer programming jobs. I have learned the basics of lists,dictionaries, loops, object oriented programming, and lots of other computer programming basics that are transferable. Since these are transferable I can more quickly build websites, mobile apps, and other applications that could help not just me but anyone. I could build a website with my formatted database and python functions in order to help other people who don't want to do the work to find which place is best for them. Lots of people would like to apply filters to loads of data to figure out which place is the best place to live, best college towns, best vacation spots, best second home locations, businesses, and whatever other places people would like to know about.
